Geo-referencing
---------------

The geo-referencing feature allows you to import a local or online IIIF
manifest.json file which can be manipulated using simple geo-referencing
tools.

To use the geo-referencing tool. Click “GeoReferencing” in the menu
panel. Then choose whether to import a local or online file from the
dropdown menu.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/G6ArM2K.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing


Import Local File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To import a local file, click “Local file” from the dropdown menu in the
navigation panel.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/TztFpSN.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_local


This opens up a file dialog. Click “Browse…” to choose a file to import.
After choosing your file, click the blue “Import” button.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/bQcJOMr.png
   :alt: georeferencing_localimport


For an example of how this works, click on the blue underlined text in
the pop-up window, e.g. (example_images). The data will be downloaded to
your computer, click “Browse…” to find it, upload it and practice with
the dummy data.

Import Online File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To import an online file, click “Online file” from the dropdown menu in
the navigation panel. In the pop-up dialog box, type in the URL of the
IIIF manifest file and click on the blue import button.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/EMoRakJ.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_onlineimport


For an example of how this works, click on the blue underlined text in
the pop-up window, e.g. (example_images). Then click import to practice
with dummy data.

Data Node Actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Clicking on a data node will show an overview of information on this
node and some more options as will be described below.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/gk6k7Ny.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_datanode


Bigger Image
^^^^^^^^^^^^

To view a larger image, click on the image in the overview and an
enlarged image will appear in a floating panel on the right.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/vw6utM5.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_biggerimage
   

Google
^^^^^^

To open up a Google search for the image caption in a new browser tab
click on “Google” in the overview.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/4ZU7vjL.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_google


IIIF Viewer
^^^^^^^^^^^

To view the image in an external viewer, click the “IIIF” Viewer button.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/BfhnXPr.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_IIIF


Lite Georeference
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To start geo-referencing, select the blue “Lite Georeference” button.
This will display an editable map on top of the base map. On top of the
map, 4 icons appear. Click the map in the middle to drag and drop it.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/evSwPrA.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_lite


Transparency
''''''''''''

To toggle between a transparent and a non-transparent layer map, click
the icon on the left.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/cNMYGH7.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_transparency


Scale
'''''

The automatically selected option is the scale option. While this is
selected, 4 blue squares appear at the corners of the layer map. Click
and drag one of the boxes to change the size of the map.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/Gq7s9vl.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_scale


Distort
'''''''

To distort the map, click the third button. Then click and drag at one
of the squares at the corners of the map to distort the image.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/6AAk7Ht.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_distort


Rotate
''''''

To rotate the map, click the button on the right and click and drag one
of the red circles that appears.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/39Vj0n6.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_rotate


Context Actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Count of Data Nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The total number of data nodes displayed at any one time will appear in
the context action toolbar at the top of the screen as highlighted
below.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/lKHK7vw.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_count


Thumbnail Mode vs Layer Mode
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To view the geo-referenced maps in the position and orientation in which
you have saved them, click “Layer mode” in the context action toolbar.

You can return to edit the maps by clicking “Thumbnail mode” in the
context action toolbar.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/JZpGSjM.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_thumbnail-layer


Export All
^^^^^^^^^^

To export all data nodes in a .json format, click “Export all” in the
context action toolbar.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/spqmS66.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_exportall


Clear All
^^^^^^^^^

To remove all data nodes from the map, click the “Clear All” button in
the context action toolbar.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/MuyxdjW.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_clearall


Cancel
^^^^^^

To discard any changes made to the layer map, click cancel in the
context action toolbar.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/hX5Tahc.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_cancel


Save & Exit
^^^^^^^^^^^

To save the changes made to the layer map, click “Save & Exit” in the
context action toolbar. This will take you back to the thumbnail mode.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/9ejY9UD.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_save-exit


Save & Export
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To save and export the single edited data node, click “Save & Export” in
the context action toolbar.

.. figure:: https://i.imgur.com/kZ4yYup.jpg
   :alt: georeferencing_save-export
